That's awesome. I'll start recording there.
also just kind of have like a fun conversation about it so let me. Cool.
Okay, I'm gonna share.
I can also read out questions if there are like larger questions while you're doing it. Do you want me to read them to you or we'll just wait till the end?
Yeah, I'll go through. I made a little couple of notes here and I can put this on the base camp when I'm done so you don't have no one else to like type it but so basically so so I can just share tell my story with this a little bit which is so I I got I got really really lucky, very young in my life, and I met Barack Obama.
At an anti Iraq war rally in Chicago and I was in high school and I just went up. I don't know why, I can't believe I did this, but I went up and I was like, I love you, I want to work for you, like let's make it happen.
And he gave me his business card and I just got so lucky and I and I worked with him for many many years.
And I also was very lucky that I got a job on the presidential campaign when he ran for president the 1st time in 2,008.
I've been, like I've had interesting, whatever ups and downs in my career and been in all these interesting places and like I have to say like the presidential campaign there's nothing I can't even compare it to anything in life like the pressure cooker the it is.
I can't, I struggle, I can't even describe the intensity of it. And to give you a picture, we're in this huge office.
And a whole floor of a big building in Chicago. And they have this countdown clock on the They have this countdown clock on the wall and it's showing like the day the months weeks days hours, minutes, and seconds until election day.
And you show up to work and you're like, oh, maybe I should like check my email or like play a little like Spider Solitaire or like chat with people or like figure out a launch order and you see those tech seconds counting down and you're like, no, we're all, it was incredibly intense.
And then this was before like scrum and agile and all this was like, 2,008.
So it was like early days for all of that. But what my little team that I was on would do.
Was we would check in in the morning so we'd all get to work at whatever 7 or 8 and everyone would say what they wanted to accomplish during the day and then we would say what they wanted to accomplish during the day and then we'd all work until whatever 8 or 9 at night and we'd have a checkout meeting and everyone would say what they got done and there was just like no excuse for missing it.
I was all that's I just got dropped I was like I'm a i'm a by temperament I'm like a very lazy and disorganized person and so I had to learn at this I was in college at this time and I just had to like get it together like it was on I just could not I couldn't go to these meetings like I didn't wanna let the campaign down.
I didn't want to let my team down and I didn't want to let myself down. And so I just had to pick up these habits.
So. A couple of things. So, so this is, this is the things that have worked for me.
Let me go back and do a screen share here. You guys can see this, right? My little notes here.
Yeah, we can see it.
Okay, cool. So I really connected with this system called getting things done and there's a book by a guy called David Allen called Getting Things Done.
I can't really like in good conscience recommend reading that book. It's it's I don't know, it's interesting. It's a classic.
A lot of people really like it. I don't think it's necessary to read it. But it does have a lot of like really I found it it was just a very like What would I say, like a very systematic way of thinking about your time and your attention?
And for me, it was the 1st time in my life where someone said, you can have a system of what you do with your time and attention and you can spend those precious resources in a in a way that is your decision.
Another one that was really important to me that I really I do really recommend everyone check out is a talk by a really really smart guy called Merlin Man.
And this is a talk called Inbox 0 that he gave at Google. It's from like the 2,000 tens or something like that.
It's old at this point. But this is like, if you've ever heard the phrase in box 0, this is where the, he coined the term in this talk.
And it's just a great, great talk. And we'll come back to that inbox 0 idea in a few minutes.
And then another one that's a really beautiful book is the checklist manifesto by A Tool Gwende.
Does anyone, I can't, how do I, wish I could see the. The chat while I do this.
So anyone read that out of curiosity? That's like a big bestseller. I can't see everyone.
Anyway, I'm seeing a lot of heads shaking now. Okay, well. The quick I'm gonna spend a lot of time I'll kind of today I'll kind of walk you through like the main ideas in Getting things done, but just to quickly give you like a summary of the checklist manifesto and that book rocks.
It's a quick read. It's super wall written. A tool gland is an amazing guy, but basically the story of that book is the World Health Organization.
He's a, he's a really a great surgeon based in I think in the US.
World Health Organization comes to him and says, hey, there's a lot of preventable and accidental deaths in surgical in surgery in like surgical theaters in the 3rd world in refugee camps and places where they don't have proper equipment.
And they said, can you come up with something that basically is costs no money that would like reduce accidental death drinks surgery.
And 1st he was like, well, no, I don't think that's possible. And then he, the book is his journey of he's like, well, he's like, well, wait a second.
He's like, there's other industries that are like life and death where they basically statistically like never make mistakes.
It's like aviation. Statistically, 0 people die in airplane. It's crazy how safe aviation is.
In the US building construction. Like nobody dies in building in a collapsed building in the US. It's basically nonexistent.
So he goes to these industries, does a lot of interviews, looks at how they do their job, and the common tool is the checklist.
Everybody has a really expensive checklist that's like this repeatable process. And then there's behaviors that go around the checklist like healthy team behaviors around the checklist.
And that book is, and then he applies it to health and the results are really cool. So love that book and also definitely recommend on that.
And then I'm also gonna walk through the to do list software that I use which is called Omni Focus and if you I will give like an overview I don't we'll see how that goes if I can like explain it well on this call and we'll set up some together just to like show how I use it.
But if you wanna learn, more about Omni-focus, there is, this guy David Sparks has this website called Max Sparky.
Where he teaches sort of like Thanks for like Mac, power users, and he has this thing called the Omni Focus Field Guide that is excellent.
It's a video. It's, I don't know, maybe 1 h video tutorial that will like make you into an omni-focus, a power user.
Also, everything I'm a Apple like power user, I don't, I'm like a degenerate Apple user.
I'll never, I'll just buy anything they make and I'm never gonna do anything different.
But if you like Omni Focus, it's on every Apple platform, so iOS, iPad OS, Vision OS, Mac.
And they just launched in the new version of a web client. So even if I'm on like a gaming PC or whatever like that, I can still get it across platform, which is nice.
Okay, so this is, so just to talk us, any questions about any of that before we get into getting things done?
I can't see if there's any questions.
Okay, no question. Oh, S. You know someone who knows a tool Gwenda. That's the coolest thing I've ever heard
Yeah, yeah, he's a really close friend of mine actually. He was, at Harvard, doing research with him.
A while back.
Do he's, he's, he's so good. He's such a good writer and such a good storyteller.
I, really like him. You heard another book about death if you want to really get depressed and read that.
It's pretty good. Alright, so, getting things done.
Alright, so the main. This is with one caveat on this. This is like my ideas about getting things done.
I'm not I can't represent you know the if you get really interested in it read the book and hear what David Allen says but this is what works for me in any case.
So at that core getting things done is like starting with like what what do you want to be using your brain for during the day, right?
So like to use like a computing analogy. Like you have so many cycles, you know, per hour to like think about things, where do you want to be putting your cycles?
Like where is your memory allocated at any given moment? You know, Ma, I think this has become like a more widespread, you know, way of thinking or whatever, but like my belief is like people are really like what are people good at uniquely good at like what's the superpower of humans?
Working together in teams, creativity, synthesizing new ideas. Writing poetry. Right. This is like what we should be putting our energy into and Humans are uniquely, at least for me, my brain is like you so bad at remembering things, remembering things in sequence, knowing how long things are going to take.
Having lists of things like I'm just so I'm terrible I don't know how you guys feel about it but I feel I feel like I feel like I feel like every day I go I can't leave the house without having this thing with me and then 9 times out of 10 I forget the thing like it's not in my backpack when I need it.
So getting things done is all about how and having good system in your life so you can free up your brain to solve problems and go to work for you and not be spending cycles thinking about do you have the right things with you?
Did you remember to talk to this guy? You know, whatever. The key idea of getting things done if there's like one takeaway that I think will like change your life and I changed my life is this idea of like ubiquitous capture so ubiquitous capture means if you think of something Right it down right then because you won't you'll go I'll remember it in 10 min and I'll write it down then
and I you definitely won't it's gone you'll be like so I'll be walking around and I'll be like I think I was supposed to write something down but I don't remember what it was Neil can you share when I was over at your place what I left in your in your house.
Oh.
The keys that I literally sit there and said, hey, Max. I was like, hey, Max, I really cannot have these keys back because I need them for the house.
And he goes, yeah, I'll leave him right here on this counter. And I like looked him in the eye.
Yeah. Yeah.
And I'm like, okay. And then I had to go to Chicago and get the keys back.
So I'm thinking about did I the little how the little house gift that I brought you
Yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Oh, that's what you're talking about. I thought you said about the keys. So Well, you talking about the red alert?
I thought somebody snuck into my house. Cause I'm in the restroom. I look over and I'm like, yo.
Who was in my bathtub? Cause there's something on the wall in my bathtub.
I'm like, intruder alert like what the heck is going on and it turns out Max left this like idea notepad like the shower notepad thing in there.
I don't know how you snuck in there, but he did somehow when I wasn't there.
Hung this thing up that allows me like write down my ideas while I'm in the shower, which is great.
Oh.
So if you go on Amazon, there's like a lot of products like this. Like the one I like is I think it's called like the shower notepad and it's like a waterproof like a plastery waterproof paper like a pad that you can tear and then like a pencil and it suction cups onto your shower.
But this is like to me this is like ubiquitous capture because like there's something about I don't know if you guys have this experience but there's something about being in the shower.
We're like, I always remember that one thing where I'm like, and I'm like, and I'm like, God, I like, I was like, I didn't call that person back or like, I have to remember to get this done today and like you have to write it down then because if you like get out then it's like For me, I have a kid, right?
So then I need to, I'm. With my kids it's like it's it's like we're off to the races so like that's captures like always you should always have some way to write things down and like the phone is so good for this.
We'll get to this and Omni focus, but like another great tip I have for you.
If anyone has a newer iPhone. The iPhone added this button on the side, the action button, which.
For me, I never had a great use of it, right? And so what I have now. Kaji can hold it up to the camera here.
So what happens now if I hold the action button it actually starts a voice memo and it's recording now and that goes into my to-do list.
So any if I'm in the car anytime during the day I just push that button and then this gets transcribed and it's gonna go in my in my omni focus for later.
So that for personally for me that's like the coolest best thing I've found to do with this little button on the iPhone.
And it's really helpful because like is stuff pops into your head at the weirdest times, you know, you can't sleep or you're up for a walk or you're at lunch with someone.
And this is like the key insight of getting things done is just capture it, put it in your to-do list.
It will change just doing that will change your life and my experience is like something like 90% of people are under capturing in their life meaning like they're not writing down enough of the things that come into their head and that could be things like business ideas, marketing ideas, I write down like jokes that I think of like just all the weirdest stuff pops in your head and you'll be so happy with yourself.
It's such a great gift to give yourself in the future just to write it down. But especially things that you remember that are important to you.
Along with a ubiquitous capture is another idea which is, so in the getting things done world they call it reviews and a review means it's like a little contract with yourself.
Meaning like, I will look at my to do list and like. Review like remember this stuff right because you don't want to feel like you're just writing it down and it goes into the void So you also need some system to do a review.
And Omni-focus, the one, the program I'm going to show you in a minute, it has a feature that does this for you.
But you can also put in your calendar, review your to do list. Like for me, I have a little morning routine where I sit down and review my to do list and and I pick what I want to get done during the day.
Some of the other ideas in getting things done. Don't live in your email inbox so a lot of I'm curious if anyone wants like shares has anything to share about this but like I think many people basically use their email inbox as their to-do list functionally, meaning like you wake up, you look at your inbox and then whatever is the most important thing in your inbox, that's what you
wind up working on. Or if you slow down during the day and you're like, I don't know what to do next.
You go into your inbox and you're like, I'm just gonna figure out who's in my inbox and start solving these problems.
This is the from the inbox 0 talk that I recommended by by Merlin. This is such a bad way to work. Like if you could imagine that you're in like a big office, right?
Like you work in like a a co-work in space. The This would be like if you had the door open and at any time during the day, anyone in the world could walk into that office and tap you in the shoulder and interrupt your work and say, could you do this really annoying thing and then you just do it?
It's like a maddening way to work and it really saps your attention during the day.
So the idea, I think, in like getting things done world is you need to do list is like a separate thing from your email.
It has to come away from your email. And doing email becomes like a chore. Like for me doing email, like I try to think of it as like taking out the garbage.
So I go. I will have 30 min a day. I'm going to sit. Set a timer. I'm going to sit down.
I'm going to do my email and then I'm like done with it until tomorrow or whatever.
I mean, realist, like, to be honest, I look at my email all the time, but like I try, that's the, that's the better habit I'm trying to get into is to like.
Be more intentional about it because I don't you know I don't want anyone in the world to be able to interrupt my day and set, tell me what's important for me to do.
Related idea to that with this is this is another idea I like about to do list. I think it's very important to have your own private personal to-do list that has no sharing features with any other users.
So I know probably everyone's company. You're on base camp, you're on notion, you're on Trello, you know, some bug tracker, pivotal, whatever.
Those are good. I have to use those for my work. Other people, but I just find it.
It's upsetting to me. I don't like when other people like our move things around like it's like a special.
It's my special like my brain. It's like my order of what's important to me and I don't want anyone else to be able to change that.
So unfortunately, the best system I have for this is like often what I do is like If I have a team meeting, we're all on Asana together.
We're all on notion together and we make our to do list. I then Copy my to-do list out of notion and put them into omni-focus and I make my own private decision for myself of like what am I going to do and what order does it go in and all of that and what we'll look at that.
I'm in focus in a few minutes but. Just it's a nice like it's a nice like bulwark against insanity to have your own private place with no other users.
Where you get to decide what you do with your time. Pretty pretty nice luxury to have for yourself.
A couple other ideas in getting things done that are cool are when you write things down, so how you write it down matters a lot.
You want to give yourself like a gift of like when you write it down, make it as easy as possible to like understand and do it.
So a couple ideas with that. Number one. Write things down in the smallest possible chunks.
That you have, right? So it doesn't help you to be like launch my you know it create a startup and launch it because that's not really doable like and and one of the rules of thumb in getting things done is nothing should go on your to do us that can't be checked off right so like I have a cat for example right so I could I can't really put a to do list item on my to do list that's like take care of
my cat because like I can't ever check that it's not the nature of that task because it can't be completed.
So what I could say is like feed my cat at 5 PM. Because that's I can check that and it goes away and it's done, but I can't be like.
A more like a like a lifestyle goal of like provide a good quality of life for my cat because that's really not like a like a checkable doable thing.
And you don't want to build that hat, you know, you don't want to be like exercising that muscle, of writing things down for yourself that are impossible to complete.
That's more for, I think for your ERs to tell you to do every week.
As well. Cool joke.
Max, where would you put that stuff? Do you have like a separate thing with the goals? Or like, when you do have something like that or do you just not think about it in that term?
Good, that's a really good question. So. This, I think this is very personal. I would love to throw this back also for the group.
That's actually really, I would love to hear about this, but like, So I've more cut somewhat recently.
I've gotten a little bit interested in hearing people talk about journaling and like intention setting and things like that.
It's really cool. I don't know a ton about it, but I think there's some I really like people I think it can be like a really beautiful practice to like.
Wake up and be like, I want to have this kind of a life or I want to be a more you know, gracious for what I had you know those sort of like lifestyle goals or whatever or like I want to be this kind of a father.
I don't really do that to be honest but but I'm curious does anyone have a practice like that that they could share?
Something of something of something like you like New Year's resolutions or journaling or like, does anyone have any experience with that?
Yeah, I did that. I have a list. I keep it in my notebook. And it's like my intentions.
So, it's, part of, therapeutic practice where I try to.
Align my actions with my intentions. So I'll just go back to him and say, how am I doing?
And has that, how long have you been doing that?
Couple of years on and off. I find that it's helpful like it's helpful like when I'm trying to make a decision about like a finite resource whether it's my time or my money or my attention.
I'll come back to that list and I'll say like, okay. Does this fit? It helps that it's short.
It can't be longer than like 4 things.
Red. Yeah, I, I think that's a great question. For me, I can tell you
I was one time I was in a co working space and I had someone at my little pod of desks with me.
I'm not a coworker, just someone a friend of mine, right? We're working in the middle of the day and this was when I was I was like in your situation because I was in a midst of like starting up a start up right and it was around 3 30 in the afternoon on like a Wednesday.
And this is my friend Nick and he stands up and he goes, I'm done for the day.
I did all my tasks and I'm gonna go for a bike ride. And I and I was stunned.
I couldn't I was like what and he goes yeah I'm done I did everything. What do you mean you did it?
I like the concept of being done of having a list of things that could be done in one day was like totally foreign to me because I was like I'm gonna do as many things as I can until I like to collapse basically, right?
And then I would wake up every day with a list that was so big that I couldn't possibly do it.
And I just saw like this freedom like he had just a great life like and he was like, yeah, I'm going for a bike ride at 3 30.
And I was like. I want that life and so like I don't have like I don't have a journal but that's like a top that became an important goal for myself of like I wanna have a life where I can be done with my work and have the important things in life.
And decide to have time for them. I don't always do that. It's not really successful, that for me like what if I'm That comes back to like the to do list and omni-focus and some of the stuff I'm I'll we'll get into in a minute but it's like by making this little contract with myself and like deciding at the beginning of the day.
like, OK, I'm going to do XY, and Z, and then I can consider this successful day.
That, that's like an important. Thing in my life. That I like. A couple more getting things done things and then we'll take do some of the questions and then I'll show you guys on the focus.
Let's see. Okay, so this is actually the last thing I have. So when you, so when you break write down projects, I was saying break into the smallest chunks, I was saying break into the smallest chunks, right down projects, I was saying break into the smallest chunks, right?
So like you get really granular, like I think you can really check off, like not like.
Design and launch a marketing campaign because that's like way too big you have to be like Make 1 h to go on a walk and brainstorm about the marketing campaign and then you write down like make a memo for myself of what I'm gonna do.
It's like you're really breaking it down into like things that can actually be accomplished. And along with that, capture, like, right, you want to give yourself the gift of writing down a lot of detail about the things you have to do.
So like for me, like for example, like I have all, because I'm like a homeowner.
And like a lot of my to-do list things are like call the plumber to fix the toilet.
I know I need to do it, but I like I can't tell you like I hate I don't know why that makes me so stressed I but I do not want to I just don't like doing that stuff So I know I can like give myself a little boost if when I write that down I look up the plumber's phone number and put it there and just like get it all ready and then when I it's time to do
it It's like I've taken away all the friction. It's just like I'm taking friction away, taking friction away so I can just sit down and do the job that I need to do.
So it's just like giving yourself all the detail you need to complete the task. And we, I will get, we can get a little more into this, but another thing that I love is a lot of times when I'm doing email, I try to like zip through email like most the big here's the best trick about email that this is again this is all in that Merlin man that inbox 0 talk which is
so funny and so good and I love But Merlin says the biggest thing about email, the biggest trick about email is you don't need to reply to like 99% of it.
What you should be doing with most of your email is archiving and moving on with your life. Most other emails they can be replied to in 20 seconds and then if it takes longer than 20 seconds and you're like, okay, I really have to think about this and solve a problem or write a letter.
Just put it in your to do it. Let make make an item in your to do list to be like right back to Neil right and then I have to have a more detailed thing and then take it out of your inbox.
Just like, it's like taking out the garbage, like take everything out of your inbox and just.
Be done with it and I have to say like I've like stopped responding to so much email. I just like, I just don't deal with it and like that there's been it's been awesome. Like it's so good.
It's solved so many problems in my life. So every email you send, it's not like you're done with it.
It just makes 5 more emails. Okay, let's do a little, I'm curious what people are thinking, any questions, and then I will get into Omni focus and I think it could be a good exercise to like build out some projects and I'll show you like exactly how I write stuff down.
This I saw a question in here about recurring tasks, which is like my favorite thing. I love recurring tasks and we'll get all into that.
That's the best making little systems in your life. Like a good engineer but Any questions?
Go ahead, Sergey.
Hey, yeah, I read getting things done a whole bunch of years ago. Don't remember all the details use, some of the concepts there.
One thing. Wanted to to add is one benefit is just Not I'm not only getting the ideas down, but then there's For me, anyway, there's a feeling of anxiety later in the day if you don't do that.
You're, you're like, what was, what was that idea in the shower? What?
What was I just thinking of? What did I have to do? And for me, like that's even.
More annoying than like forgetting the idea is like the feeling that you've forgot something. So just getting it down so you don't have to worry about that.
Yeah.
I always find like if I just sit and like the brain just like sit in the morning sometimes and just like write and it's like, you know, just like, just here's everything I need to do and I get it out of my head.
If I then like go have my coffee or go take a walk, I sometimes I have the best ideas because it's like you're almost like you like made space and now like you can like think you have like you can like breathe.
But yeah, totally, totally agree.
Maps, how do you decide like if you wanna be like that guy with the 3 30 bike ride?
Yeah.
How do you decide what? Where the list ends for today. Cause I feel like you can always do more and it's like, yeah, I know there are deadlines for things, but how do you divide it up in today's versus like, this is how much Yeah.
Okay.
So I'm gonna So I'm going to show you in Omni Focus because it's very like it's just like I just used the software and then there's features that help me do it but there's a concept in Omni Focus.
So let's say we have a task, right? And the task could be, let me think of an example of like, oh, write down my notes for the getting things done talk, right?
So I might have a bunch of subtasks in that, like watch this talk on YouTube to familiarize myself with it.
And that task has like, there's an idea getting things done, called dependencies. And dependencies can be all kinds of things.
So what are the dependencies? Let's say the task for me is rewatch the inbox 0 talk.
To familiarize myself with it. So the dependencies for that are like number one, I have to have 1 h of time.
Number 2, I kind of, I pretty much have to be at home. I don't really wanna like, you know, that's like a kind of wanna like be at my desk and like be able to take notes and stuff.
And that's and then that's about it, right? But other dependencies, some tasks like I have dependent like listen I have like.
Dependencies where it's like, okay, I need to buy this thing and then I have to be a target.
The dependency is I have to be in a certain place. Have dependencies of like meet with the founders for my one-on-one and those are dependencies on other people so dependencies can be anything outside of you that you need to do the task.
So Omni Focus has this great feature that shows that says show me the available tasks meaning where are the tasks without dependencies so like what can i do now and like for example on my if you use it on your phone it knows your location and it will actually show you like let's say I'm at target right it will just show me as available all the shopping things I need to do at Target really
cool so those become available because I'm standing at target Another one is like like let's say like like Lilian I have things that are tagged Lilyana like things that you and I need to discuss and I'm on a, but they could be across this project, that project, right?
Techstars, like maybe it's like I have one right now in my to do list of like send you puzzles, right?
When we talk, I can be like, just show me all the, I can basically go into the Lilianna dependency and just be like, what's available for like stuff for Loyana right now.
So basically, I think the answer to your question is like in the beginning of the day. I have omni focus show me everything available for the whole day and I'm almost like you're almost like Dr.
Strange where you're like seeing all the possible futures and you're like I could do this I could do that I could do that.
I try to make a decision of like this is I'm like I could be go to sleep tonight and feel happy with myself if I get done this, that, and that.
And then I have and then I pick them and omni-focus like I flag them which I'll show you but like and then that's it and then that's my to-do list for the day
So the idea is not to
And do you get lost in? Yeah, go ahead. Sorry, Mike.
Oh, I'm not like it's not possible to do Look, I've probably a lot of you can relate to this, but like it's I can't do everything I need to do today.
Yeah, that's it.
Like it's not happening. So, you know. Yeah, but I always think like it's better like looking back on it.
There's always like a you're like riding this like avalanche down a mountain or something right and like it's always better to like Let's say you've got 100 things to do and you know you're only going to get 4 of them done.
It's trust me, it's better to decide for yourself the 4 you're getting done than just have it be like who emailed you most recently.
What you know whatever like you want to be intentional and be like I can like help my company the most I can help my life the most if I do 1, 2, 3, and 4.
Yeah.
Super helpful. Thanks, Thanks. Go ahead, Allie.
Yeah, rather than a question is, maybe IA reflection. So I, find personally myself doing making 2 mistakes and I wonder if you know you've done it and have some feedback.
One is overestimating the amount of time that I actually have a available to work because, you know, there's so many meetings, there's so many in 2 conversations that are important.
That's still away from the hours. And that generates frustration because I never get done my to the least because I have less and less time.
To complete. So the 1st mistake that I'm making constantly, the second one is the underestimation of time that it takes me to do new things.
So I can assess how long it takes me to do something that I don't before. Because I know how long it takes to think about it or like you said it's an immediate thing, 20 seconds response to an email.
But we're going through a lot of things that are new. And I'm underestimating a lot the time that it would take to think, to create a system, to repeat them.
And. And so that also contributes to not finishing things in time and kind of like have that feeling of.
The pile of things for the next day and the following is only increasing so That's something that, I feel.
I need to start managing much better. So if you have any advice or if, if omnipotus can help on that.
Yeah, I so, only focus is not like a time tracker, you know, I think they do have some features in there, which we can I can open those up when we get in there in a second and they do have some like.
Much time will take. I don't use that. So listen, I have the same problem as you.
I'm, I'm really, I have like a hole in my brain in the place where it's supposed to be where you know how long things will take and like I will like I'm like famous where I'm like with a friend and they're like here I have like a half hour for you and I'm like Great, let's go get lunch because it'll take like 10 min to walk there and
then we'll order and we'll eat and that'll be 10 min and then 10 min to walk back and we'll be done.
They're like, are you out of your mind? Like, it's like, like a 90 min, you know, whatever, but like I'm so bad at it.
So I just have a couple of thoughts. I don't know. I can't even say if this is good advice because I'm late for every. I'm the worst.
I'm awful at this. I'm late for everything. Everything takes me too long. But just a couple of quick things are like number one.
Okay, so I Did you guys know about flow state? Does that feel like that idea is out there, right?
So like if I'm working on something programming, designing, writing, thinking, whatever, and I get into that flow state where you just like part of the part of flow state is time really disappears.
Like I've heard like for example, I've heard like basketball players talk about this. Like if you're in flow state on the court, you don't know if it's like 6 h or 6 min and it's just it's a i find it to be almost If I get there, which is like not easy, like it's sometimes once a month I have like a time when I'm working and I'm
like, I'm in the zone right now. I find it to be like sacred. Like I just The best work of my life is in those moments and I don't care.
I don't care what's on my to do list unless my unless my daughter needs something for me is about the only thing, but like.
Everyone else can go pound sand. Like I'm I'm going to do my work. I don't I don't know if that's helpful or not but like If I'm in just that's like such a special, you know, I think like you only get so many of those in your I'm not a professional MBA player, so I can't just like get into the zone.
you know, whenever I want, Those are such special moments in my life. I'm just like, forget.
I'm like, I'll text everyone I know. And I'm like, plans are off.
Sorry. I'm I had a good idea, I got to work, and that's it.
And just use it when you have it.
Yeah, blackout swings. Yeah, exactly.
So there's a concept I play baseball in college. We call them blackout swings where basically you hit a home run and you'll go back in the dugout and your teammates will be asking you like what pitch it was, where it was located at and you have no idea.
Like you were completely oblivious to what was going on, but you just crushed it. It's crazy.
Zach, can you talk about? Is there any tricks or I guess we're getting a string a little off topic but I'm just so interested in this like how to like serious athletes like Think, how do you get into that zone?
I, well, me personally, I did a lot of visualization. Prior to games.
So if you see yourself doing something. It's more likely that you are gonna do it, right?
And when you get in these moments, if you kind of clear your mind and stop like letting anxieties pull your brain left and right you want to have like if you ever meditated before we just had this like empty state in your brain if you can get in that empty mode more often than not, it kind of just, I say like not to bring spirituality into it, but.
I say like the universe takes over when you stop trying to control and will your way to stuff it just does what it's supposed to do so that's I'm like more take the dummy approach to it where it's like clear your mind and it just takes over but the less you have to think about the more you kind of naturally just slow.
That's how I do it at least. I don't know about anyone else.
Yeah, I did a practice martial arts and meditation for a while. So I think it's exactly that.
It's like. Letting go so Letting go of everything, thoughts. I think this specific thing is.
Detachment from outcomes. So it just. You don't care, you're just There, regardless in the moment.
And that's the practice that you get. That's the muscle memory you get from. From just mindfulness practice.
Is doing that over and over again.
Yeah, the There was something else I thought about when you said that a kind of like clearing your mind and not focusing as much so another concept in baseball is this thing called quality of bats or quabs.
Where you could do everything you're supposed to do correctly but still get out. You have a higher chance of not being successful as a hitter than you do being just like a 1-thirdrd of the time you'll actually get on base or you'll be successful at your job.
So you really don't even focus on trying to hit this is related to your task list. You don't focus on trying to get everything done every single day.
You just try to do what you're supposed to do when you when you align it when you wake up in the morning trying to be perfect all the time is like a losing battle so that's another thing that we kind of focus on detached from the outcome is a great, to say that.
Yeah, and Antonio just linked to a really good book. I read this book when this came out called, FLOY.
This is the, I might have read a different book.
Yeah, this is the
This looks cool. Oh wait, is this the guy who is this the flow state guy?
Yeah, the flow state guy, like he, he, this is fascinating. Like he did a study and interview lots of people to understand what was flow state and he came out with these 7, bullet points of what takes us to, flow state.
Okay, I did read.
And it's very scientifically addressed. It's really, it's really, really nice book, very incentive.
I did read, I did read this, this book is really cool and I'm another one Ali that might be helpful, I think it's kind of in line with your question.
This is a great book called the that's newer called Deep Work by Cal Newport. I don't know if anyone read that, but it's about like a lot of I can give you the like back of the book blurb is like basically like a lot of the most important work that you'll do and the best work that you'll do is work that happens like very slowly over a long period of time.
And unless you like intentionally make that time in your life, you could easily live a life where you're like always putting out fires and working in short bursts and you never have that.
That time to get into the flow state and work on everything. And then I'd 1 more one in here Jennifer could tell, say more, I, you would, I think this was maybe about like making systems about keeping the shared note of problems to solve.
Yeah, I mean, I was thinking where when you write down these thoughts that you have, my husband and I are always complaining about poor design.
And so every time we see something where it's like this is really poorly designed or just like not good or anything.
Then we just write it down and write down our ideas on how we can make it better. But the running doc we've had for a few years now and it's like so long.
And I think, you know, at some point. We will probably. Build whatever we think is the best idea or I guess my husband will but Yeah.
I think that's kind of like our parking lot for ideas. That come to our head. And yeah.
You saw, do you have like systems for like solving things in your house for example like you know, ordering.
Laundry detergent or like you know those like these like little like nuisance problems.
No, but actually I just downloaded coexist at the last demo day. I don't know where wait is Andy here no D'artagnan.
Okay, well anyways coexist was from the last cohort and for a household I do almost everything like I schedule the kids doctor's appointments and like Schedule the housekeepers and all sorts of stuff and so A lot of times a lot of the like administrative stuff falls on me and I'm like this is an inequitable and so.
So yeah, we downloaded the coexist app and we really need to like implement it because I think it'll be better.
Or at least, I don't know, Datan, you tell me, have you used it?
Hmm, well, I'm sure Andy and Stella would appreciate the shout out. No, we're me and my wife for a bit on the messy side with all those kind of stuff.
So unfortunately it's a it's, it's not our way, but, but it's an awesome.
Yeah.
Cool. I would love if we have a few minutes at the end. I want to get into omni focus just before we get too long but if we have a few minutes at the end I would love to have a little parents chat if there's any other parents because that's my struggle right now is like I thought I had some stuff figured out and then it's like No, I do not.
I don't have anything figured out. But, anyway. Okay, so this is Omni Focus.
I am running the demo of this so it's a brand new install just to like show you guys so I'll also go through and as we work I'll like
I'll like,
Kind of. Yeah, I see the problem. I'm also on a new user account on the Mac and they've really hopefully disabled right-click, I think.
Is this on desktop and app, like mobile app?
It's on everything, yeah, it's on every, they're like. So this is made by a company called Omni Group and they are like 1st class like Apple citizens like they're like they're like great widgets like like on every platform, like best practices, like they're really great.
They're like, they're, and they've been around for, it's very, very old, mature software that's been around for decades.
They're like beloved long time Mac developers. So I definitely trust them. I've been using this since college like it's been around for a minute.
Okay, so this is Omni Focus. The, on the left here, you've got these little tags and these are like our big areas.
So inbox, inboxes where we're going to quickly capture stuff. So, I'll just make a couple here and we can see how this looks, right?
So review inbox 0 talk for the tech stars folks. Okay. And that's gonna go, we'll just leave that there for a second.
Let's see, by, kitty litter. And that one, okay, so let's put some dependencies on that in a minute, because that one I need to be a target to do.
And, let's see, I want to read, reread. By
Actually, it's really I don't really want to read flow. It's actually I want to like read the books from the chat.
From the GTV talk. So what I'm writing down right now, this is a real one that should really go on my actual to-do list.
But the idea here is. I just saw in the chat when we were talking, people were putting book recommendations and I want to go, I want to document those and go read the book.
So I'm just writing it down to remember and we'll break that out in a second. So the inbox is just like, this is basically like the to do app on your iPhone, right?
It's just like a list of things that can be done. If you check it, it's done just like that.
In here is like a little editor. So I can put a note in here. So this is just a note to myself.
So these are. In the zoom chat, right? So that's just like contacts or information, whatever you want.
And then each you can see each task here. It can have a project. And a tag and I want to change .
Something here Let's add. I don't know, I don't think you, I don't know if you guys can see this.
We can't see whatever
Okay, I'm changing. There we go. I changed to the in the settings of Omi Focus.
I added these extra little fields in here, right? So, okay, so let's look at the properties that a to-do item can have.
It can be in a project, it can have a tag, a tag is another word for a dependence.
T, okay, tag can be anything you want. This is what's cool. I'm gonna focus could do whatever you want.
I like it for doing like getting things done system like I was talking about. So the way I personally use tabs is I make them my dependencies, right?
Here we go. So send. Liliana puzzles, okay? So, tags, I have 2 here.
So this is gonna be a, I need to get Lily on his address. So this is gonna have like sub So let's let's do another one.
So it's actually like email. Luiana and get
And address. And what I'm going to do is drag this. Under this task so it's actually a nested it's actually like just became a little project almost like it's like a dependency.
So 1st I have to do this and then I can do that, right? So this one is gonna get a tag.
This is like a mailing task. Meaning like I have to like have stamps or something. I have to like it's involved in like sending mail.
This is one of my dependence. That's how I think about it because I send a lot of packages and stuff out to people.
And then this one is like, I actually need to talk to Liliana. So I'm gonna do, I'm gonna make a dependency for Liliana because I can't do that on my own.
I need her for that. So she becomes a dependency. Okay, so the other few that we have here are defer until this little feature called the fer until this is the moat This is the most special thing in omni-focus.
I don't really know of other to-do list software that is quite set up like this and this is like a for me a like a life-changingly cool feature, which I will we will get into a second.
Do do date, everyone is familiar with that and then repeat. So this is how you do like recurring tasks.
And this is like such a good little edit. I can you guys see this? The little editor in here the picker?
Yeah, we can see it.
Okay, so it's it's such a robust picker, you can do, you can do like repeat it every Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
You know, one week until, you know, from the deferred day. Like it's very, it's super robust.
Okay. So let's go, now let's keep looking down those. So that's inbox.
So we just captured a bunch of stuff. So now I can see. Projects. So let's do, let's make a couple of projects for ourselves.
So a new project is gonna be. Techstars GTD talk. I know I need to get that ready.
Let's make one for like clean my office. I need to do that today.
And anyone have a project they want that would be helpful to like break out like an example project just to write down?
Do you use Omni focus for personal or work or both?
Yeah, everything for me, cause it's only me on it. There's no sharing. It's everything.
It's all, it's everything. It's like work. Stuff for my daughter, like.
Do the dishes, water the plants. Shopping, everything. It's like, it's what I need to do with my time during the day.
Okay.
That's how I like it, but you don't, you know, some people prefer totally, you know, like church and state and I just like it because those are all that's my life like I have to do all that stuff.
Right.
Anyone have a little company project they wanna throw on here? Someone volunteer?
Financial model.
Make that so good. Make a financial model.
Okay. Okay, great. That's projects. Let's look at projects real quick.
So I'm gonna open up. So there's this other bar here. This bar is like all the metadata.
So like, let's look at it here real quick. This bar shows all the same metadata as here.
It's just broken out into another panel and there's all the options, right? You could put notes, the defer date, the tags, the project, this all.
Should be basically familiar. So projects have another really cool piece of metadata, which is project. Type, project type and there are omni focus offers 3 different kinds of.
So this is a parallel project. A parallel project is a project with tasks that can all be done at the same time.
So clean my office. We might actually, Texas GTD Talk. What's a parallel project?
Let's just say clean my office is a parallel project meaning there might be 20 things right organized my books take out the trash whatever buy this thing it doesn't really matter what order it doesn't matter to the success of the project what order I do those things in they can really be done in any order so that's parallel.
Make a financial model, we're gonna get into like, we'll break that out into tasks, but I can already tell you that is a sequential project.
Meaning you have to do step one before step 2. Like you can't unlock the end until you've done the beginning.
Many projects are like that. And the last one is single actions. And single actions are like I kind of use it almost exclusively for something like a shopping list where it's like you don't even need to do everything.
You just need to do some of it or it's just like one off like do this do that.
Okay. Another option is complete the project of the last action. So that's when it's all done.
Just go ahead and complete the project. So this is, let's get into the financial model. Actually, I'm gonna make my GTD talk a sequential.
I'm gonna set it to sequential, meaning I want to do everything in order, OK? So 1st is actually I have a project.
I have an item which is review inbox 0, right? So let's put that in. Tech stars GTD talk and now here it is, right?
Then there's right up my notes. Then there's install a, vanilla Omni focus trial to demo.
And then there's like I don't know, like get the zoom link.
10 min before the talk. Okay, so that's the project that's like you know, whatever.
That's abbreviated. We can all imagine a project with all the steps in order like that, right?
So I need to make a perspective. I'm, give me one second, I'm gonna, I have a little popup here and I'm making a perspective.
So I'm setting availability. So what I made is a little. These things on the sidebar, right?
These are just sort of like filters of like how I'm looking at my to do. It's just different ways of filtering and seeing the items you have to do.
And I just made one for myself here called Available. And this is now. Showing me only what's available to do right now.
So if we look and that in my little talk, right, the only thing available for me, because I said this project is sequential, meaning it has to be done 1, 2, 3, 4 in order and only in order.
The only thing available for me to do right now is review this inbox 0 talk. And what that means is I can't write my notes until I've reviewed that this is useless to me.
I don't want to see write my notes because I can't do it. At 1st I have to watch the talk, right?
So when I look at available, like when I wake up in the morning and I'm like, what am I going to be doing?
Sorry.
Tag this. Okay, there we go. I don't want to see write my notes. I only want to see review the talk.
So this is a reflection of what's available for me to do. Right now. So now let's say I wake up in the talk isn't for another couple days or whatever and I don't even want to see this.
I'm going to say defer this. For 2 days. And now it becomes unavailable and I don't even see it.
It's out of it's out of my brain but I know in 2 days when it becomes, when that timer comes down and it becomes available again, I'm going to now see it again on my available list.
Are you guys with me? I don't know.
So when you moved the task out of the inbox to the project, did it stop living in the inbox?
Okay.
Yeah, so it moves so this is a setting you can change, but in omni-focus it never like disappears things.
It only does things on refresh meaning like when you close out of the window and that's so you don't I think the idea is to prevent the software is never going to show you things changing and moving.
Okay.
In real time. It's to not make it look like your things are disappearing. Essentially. You can change that in settings, I believe.
Got it.
So let's give the
So then when you one more question, Max, when you have the non sequential project, so the parallel project.
Yep.
Do all of those things just show up in your available since it's like you can do them all?
Yep, so let's look at that. So cleaning my office, take out the trash, order new pens.
From the Japanese pen store.
What else do I have to do to clean my office? Organize my books
Yeah, good enough. Okay, so those are all the things I need to do to clean my office today, right?
So right now, if I go to available. Those are all showing me that I can do them today.
If I go back into projects and I go, you know what? I really don't feel like cleaning my office today.
That's gonna wait until tomorrow. I can go defer until Tomorrow and now when I go to available it's all got it's not even there.
I'll just it will come back to I know it I know it's gonna come back tomorrow and I can, but so I can get it out of my head, but I'm just made a decision.
I'm not looking at this today. And you can even get as granular like if you if I wanted to I could be like don't show me this until 5 pm like I'm actually gonna do this after work today.
Or maybe app like right so like after bed so like my daughter goes to sleep at 7 so like app show me it just show me it after 7 30 you know show me it after bedtime so Those are.
That's how you use that. And what's cool is because I, these are all in a project, if I, it inherits, right?
Defer it everything in the project inherits that. Deferral if that makes sense. Okay, let's do a couple more of these.
So this is gonna be. Target. Yes, yes.
Good question. Sorry. And so a project. What's your expectation for when to finish a project?
Do you build projects for the week? Do you build projects for a month?
Yes, so I have some projects like I really do legitimately make a project that's like a shopping list for the grocery store just because it's where I like to write it down or I make a project for like clean my office and that might be one that I'm gonna get done in an hour.
I just need a place to write it down and get it out of my brain. So a project could be something that I'm going to do in in 30 min but I also have projects in how many focus that have been there for years that are like Launch my company, right? Or something like that.
I don't know if that's best practice, but it's up to you. It's just, it's like how you want to see things and how you want to organize them.
Thanks.
And then do you just now have a due date on those? So they just get to sit there and they don't show up and available.
Yeah, so due date, so let's talk about due dates for a second. So. The way this is again, I'm just giving you my opinion about this and it's not, you don't have to do it like this, but so like due dates to me, I have a complicated relationship with due dates.
I'm curious if anyone else has ever had this experience of like I'll make a little list for myself and I'll put a due date on everything.
I'll be like, that's gonna be due on Tuesday and that's gonna be on Wednesday.
Then at the end of the week, all I have is just a huge list of overdue things that I didn't do and they're all screaming at me.
Yes.
And so I have just stopped using due dates myself. I don't stick to them. They don't help me.
They stress me out and I find them, I find like I'm lying to myself. I'm like I will do this by this day and I just don't do it.
So I don't want to build a muscle of not trying to exercise a muscle of disappointing myself.
If I on the rare occasion, so here's what a due date means to me. A due date means to me like it will have horrible consequences for my life if I don't do this by this date.
So a thing that will have a due date for me is like renew my driver's license. I'd better get that down by that date or I'm gonna.
Like go to jail for driving without a license, right? So like if it has a due date, that's like Red alarm like it must get done.
It's like really serious if it's like I really want to take out the remember to take out the trash today that doesn't get a due date that's just what I would do is so we'll get into this.
I need to show you this. So I'm you focus says this other thing which is flag, right?
I just flag it And that's how I decide what I'm, that's my intention of what I'm going to get done today is.
What's flagged?
So you don't even look at the available tab. You just look at the flag.
I do, I do. I look at available tasks. Yeah, I do use that. That's how I like.
So what I do in the morning is I look at the available tasks. And then I go through and I'm not doing all this today but like what can I get done today?
Okay, I can get Lilianna's address. I'm gonna buy kitty litter.
I'm not making a financial model for my company, but I'll take out the trash.
Those are my 3. If I do those 3, like I could be like, okay, I like did some chores today.
And then I can just see those. I can get rid of everything else and I can just see those.
Got it.
Today. That's like what I want to get done today. So it's like I'm making like I'm starting with like what's everything I can get done and then I'm picking like here's the 5 that I can call this a good day if I did those 5 sort of.
Okay, we have 3 questions. The 1st one, yeah, go ahead. Do you want me to read it to you?
Okay. Yeah, go. Yeah, please.
The 1st one is from snow. It says for me deferring tasks often collects a bunch of tests and dumps them to me at once.
How do you manage that?
I go through and just differ them again. If I get like a bunch of stuff, if I'm like differ everything until Monday and then it's Monday and I'm like, Oh no, it's the consequences of my own actions and now everything is undeferred.
I just go through and pick more and differ again, or I try and get some things done or one of my favorite things in life is deciding that something isn't actually important and deleting it off my to-do list and going, you know, upon further reflection I actually don't want to do this and I just delete it.
It's pretty nice if you can do it. Yeah.
It's very powerful. Mark, what about you?
Great, thanks.
One of my problems is using task list on a mobile device. I believe this, and this app is also shared on your mobile device, share the same data.
And so while I'm working, my mobile is closed. If I look at the WhatsApp or something, it can distract me for really long periods of time.
If I check something on YouTube, I have some. Some, extension that blocks everything from YouTube.
I see only the search bar. Otherwise I'm stuck for hours in the middle of doing something important.
So the question is, how do you do it? On your mobile with this app and not being distracted.
So I don't, I'm the worst part. I mean, I'd spent an hour on TikTok last night.
Like I'm the worst person to ask about this. Like I love being on my if I love to be on my phone in my bed.
But, or I don't love it, but I do it all the time. But, I there's an app I really like.
And what's the one that blocks everything with the search bar?
I'll check it. I'll do the temperature.
Okay, so there's 1 that I've been playing with that I really like and it's called one sec one SEC and it's for iPhone and what it does I can show you.
So you pick the apps you want it to run on and it uses you have to set it up with shortcuts and stuff but you're all smart you'll figure it out but so basically look at what happens right so I'm gonna open Twitter or it's x the everything app And what it's going to do, it's actually not.
Let's see, it shouldn't allow me to open Twitter. Oh, there it goes. So it actually puts this, all it does is it puts this timer on.
And I just says like, take a breath and it takes 10 seconds before I'm allowed to see Twitter.
And I just have to sit here and wait. And then I have that program to show me. Hey, instead of doing Twitter, here's a link to the Kindle app where you could like read a book with your time.
And I have to say, like for me, I find myself like going on like Twitter, Instagram, whatever those like.
Horrible mind prisons when I'm like bored for 10 seconds and I'm in an elevator or like whatever and sometimes just making myself wait those 10 seconds I like sober up and I'm like oh I don't actually want to Twitter like I actually want to live a good life.
So sometimes and then amazingly, let me see if I just closed it out.
1 1 second like check this out so it has these statistics on it right so it knows so here's what it does it looks at how much time every time I open Twitter
This is so depressing every time I open Twitter
I spend, does it say? I don't know. I spend it knows how much time I spend on average on Twitter.
And then it looks at the number of successful interventions and it will tell me right here this app has saved me 6 h on Twitter.
8 h on TikTok, God that's depressing and 3 h on Reddit, which is great.
Like, I'm so happy to have that time back. That like so anyway that's a pitch that's that one is that Would you add? I don't know. I'm sorry.
Thank you.
I just got excited about that, but.
Okay. Any, should I, is this, do you guys wanna keep seeing how many focus?
Is this helpful to keep walking through? Yes. Okay. Yeah, let's do it.
Yeah, there are 2 more questions, Max. Fabian and then there's 1 in the chat.
Hey Max, thanks boys. Where do you draw the line? I guess between your company's system, like base camp, pick up and so on and where you use a new focus to avoid like duplicates.
And trees or sub task projects. And
Yeah, so I take, so like, I have many different companies and collaborations with people and I I don't know about you guys I'm on notion a lot that's like the new one that everyone likes to use so unfortunately what I do is at the end of a meeting or whatever I have to take the to-do list items from the shared one from base camper notion and I copy and paste
them into omni-focus myself. And the reason is I just I just want to decide for myself what I'm going to do.
I don't want someone else to tell me what to do with my time. So. You can make it.
I think there's. I think if you ask 10 people that question, you'd get 10 answers, but that's how I do it for personally from myself.
Yeah, yeah, trying to figure out that. But yeah, thanks.
It's not like I don't love the fractured like every having information everywhere like it really actually like I feel the same way about chatting with people like I never know where I talk I all the time I'm like where am I talking person.
Same. Yeah.
I have 9 apps and it's like are we in like DMs or? Same with to do's. I'm like, where is that thing I need to do?
So. Personally for me if it's in omni-focus I will pay attention to it and do it and if it's not an omni-focus it's like someone else's problem.
It's like I'm not paying attention to it. But yeah.
Okay, thank you.
Do you ever like write down your things in the wrong place like on a post it or like somewhere else because of time or?
I have I mean, I have full, I have so many, like I have nothing but note, like my entire desk is just.
Yes.
Random scraps of paper or I write things down. I come home, I take things out of my pocket and it's like, it's like, it's like, wow, like I have stuff everywhere.
But that's like, it has to go in on me. If I'm really want to do it, it has to go in on me focus.
It has to.
So is there like a sit like I'm looking at my post around 2 is there like a system where you put it in or like a day you pick?
Okay. Yeah, I sit there and I type it. I don't I open it like open. I said that my computer.
Look, I was at a thrift store and I got this. A restaurant check. Pad and I was just using it as a to do list and just writing my stuff down on it and then it's like here and I just sit down on my computer and I sit and type in an army focus because if I don't it's gonna I'm gonna lose it if it's on a little piece of paper like
I'm definitely gonna lose it. It's going in the washing machine probably.
I see. So it just like you know the importance of it so you make sure to write it down.
There's not like a system to do.
I mean, I tried it like, yeah, I try to write down everything and then it has to go into omni-focus.
So like, the sort of the best case scenario is to type it right into omni-focus.
For me, what's my favorite is to type it right in an omni-focus in my computer.
And there's, yeah, amory focus is a sort of like hockey you can push and it does a little pop up and you can just quick capture or whatever.
Hmm.
Which is cool, but like, I also like little pads. Like I like my little tiny pads of paper and I have personal style.
I love paper and pen and I like thinking with paper and pen and I like thinking with paper and pen and I like thinking with paper and pen and so then the downside is like you know, then you have to sit there after the meeting and type my notes in Domni Focus.
But, that's. Whatever, that's life.
Sounds like it's a muscle. Yeah, like you have to get used to that. So.
Yeah. Yeah, I guess, yeah.
A bunch of people in the chat are asking how do you handle delegating tasks and how do you delegate without disappointing yourself with to do lists?
Okay, let's talk about this. Alright. Let's go into the financial model.
That's a 1 where we can do delegation. This is the bet. This is where this is like the best.
This is so cool. Who said financial models? Is that Jennifer?
It was J-Lo, yes.
Will you tell me like, we don't actually need to get into making a financial model, but I don't even know what a financial model is.
Could you, like, what are the to do items?
Okay, need to figure out the metrics for the financial model like the lever.
And what is that? What is that? What do you do to figure out what does that mean? You have to have a conversation with the team.
Oh,
Yes.
Okay, so let's just make that a project. So here we go. So here's how I would think about this.
So I would write down the big idea, which is like figure out the metrics. For the model, is that it?
Yeah.
One of the, here's another good trick by the way of how I'm writing this down.
So I'm repeating the use of the phrase financial model. Right? I didn't just say figure out the metrics.
I said figure out the metrics for the financial model even though it's in the financial model project.
And the reason is later I might see this out of context and it's going to save me a little cycle of thinking to see the whole thing written out so I know exactly we're doing.
So this actually has a sub task which is meet with the team to discuss.
Metrics and then there's probably another task which is like schedule a meeting with the team, right?
So there's like reach out. To the team to schedule a meeting. And then there is here back from team.
Okay, Lisa.
Number one, who's on your company? Who? Remind. So here back from Sergey, here back from Lisa.
About next metrics. Meeting?
Okay, so Meet with the team to discuss metrics. I can't do that until we
Yeah, until we schedule the meeting. So 1st I have to, so the next, so in order to do that, 1st I have to reach out and then I have to hear back from everyone.
So this is, so this is how this looks. So this is going to get a tag of Lisa.
And this is going to get a tag of. Okay So. And so this project is actually sequential.
It has to get done in this order. And this project is a parallel because it doesn't matter whether I hear back from Lisa or Sergey.
What order, right? I could hear back from Lisa, S again, any order. So this little mini project is all at once and this is in order it's got to be This has got to get done like this, right?
Right.
Okay, so. What's available in this project if I go to available? Is only
Oh, I set that up wrong.
There we go. So it's only reach out so it should be. Only Reach out to the team to schedule a meeting.
That's the only thing that can get done right now. Like, I can't hear back from Sergey.
Because I haven't emailed Sergey yet and I can't make the metrics because we haven't had the meeting.
So the only thing on my plate is reach out to the team to schedule a meeting. So now I'm gonna write my email and I say, Sergey Lisa, we got to meet about the thing, fill out this form, whatever you guys do.
Great. I'm, I'm done with my work. I did my part and I emailed them, right?
Now I have a delegate task. Now I have a dependency. I have to hear back from Lisa and I have to hear back from Sergey.
So I don't wanna hear, I don't care about this, I already emailed them, it's not my problem today, but I'm gonna give them until Monday.
So I'm gonna defer this until Monday.
And I'm going to flag it because it's important to, I need to hear back from them.
So what's cool is now on Monday morning. This thing is gonna pop up and I'm gonna be like, oh, did I hear back from Lisa?
Did I hear back from Sergey? And if I didn't, I'm gonna email them again and say, hey guys, got up close bloop on this.
I didn't hear back from you. This is an unbelievable superpower. I had, I will just share like one story with you.
I was doing for the puzzles. I was doing customer service for the I was answering all the customer service emails from the puzzles and I kept hearing and I was hearing from users from people and they would email and they'd say, hey, there's a problem or the art is peeling off.
It's delaminating from the cardboard. This is like a huge red flag for me. Something is wrong with the manufacturing.
So I emailed the factory rep in China and I was like, sent them a picture and I was like, hey, one of our customers emailed us. What's up with this?
What happened? I didn't hear back. So I make a to do list item and I go in one week.
Hear back from the guy in China and I had in her back room so I email him again, right?
And he says, let me look into it. And I say, Look into it. I feel like that's like buying time.
So I go in one week, remind me again here back from so I just have this thing come up every week.
I emailed this guy every week for like a year and I didn't let him off the hook until and every time we met about something or he wanted some new business or we're talking about the contract or whatever, I'm like, hey, what's up with this one thing?
Cause I, it's like a superpower. Like I always remembered this one little like, it's like a.
Like a broken nail, you know, it's like it was like, I was always there.
Like I just, I never could forget it because it was in my omni focus. And we did get to the bottom of it.
It was like there was like water was getting into some of the packages during shipping or something and it's fixed.
But like later that guy was like, how did you, he's like, how did you do that?
Like, he's like, I thought for sure you just forget about that and we'd move on with our life, but like you just, he was like, you're like a dog.
Like you just like wouldn't let it go. Like you just kept asking and asking and asking. I'm like I'm trust me I'm not walking around in my life like thinking about that.
It's just it's in my thing and so it reminds me to do it. So it will make you so tenacious to like have.
Deferred thing that keeps popping up and popping up and popping up like you'll never forget.
It's like it just makes you. Like, you like the Terminator. You like.
Because you just know what I'm talking about, there's like so many things in life where you're like, I'm not gonna deal with this, that person's definitely forgetting, gonna forget about it, right?
Or like, I'll just, no one's gonna remind me about this. Like, you will never forget.
You will just keep going and going and going and going because we'll always remind you of it. So that's how I deal with like
Differing out is like I have the meeting with the person and then I write down for myself I go like it's not I can't control if they like I am so like let's say it's like
I couldn't put on my to-do list Lisa emails me back about the meeting because I can't do that.
That's not my task. I'm not Lisa. I can't make her do it.
Sorry, Lisa. I'm not mean to, if you're here. I don't mean to.
A pick on you or whatever, but like it's like a Did you guys does that make sense?
Like you can't write something down that you can't do so you can only write down what you can do and what I can do is hear back from her That's my responsibility is to hear back and then do the next action.
And if I don't hear back, it's not getting checked off and I'm never going to let.
Lisa is never gonna hear the end of it. It's gonna be like, why don't you reply to my email? What's going on?
Bumping this thread, putting this thread on top of your inbox. You just have to be like so tenacious.
Good for sales, good for all kinds of things. Like you will just like never ever ever Forget one of those little annoying things.
So let's just say now Lisa emails me back some days, Sergey emails me back some dates. So that's done.
So right. So now what's available? Meet with the team to discuss the metrics.
We have our meeting and I can check that off and now It's I have to write my I don't know what the deliverable is right this should really be something like.
Send the Google Doc to the team. It should be like a thing that could be done, right, like circulate the Google Doc to the team with the 1st draft of the metro, something like that, right?
And now we can be done with that. And now this project itself make a financial model actually becomes available.
There's no remaining tasks. And now I can click there and we're done. That project is done.
Hmm.
And the project itself is complete.
That's why that's like the power of having projects that can like be completed.
So having differ, right, so it like pops up and then suddenly it's like, okay, you gotta deal with this again.
Defer it pops up you gotta deal with it again it's so it's so it's huge life-changing
So do you wanna yield to like or try to stay on the side of having projects that you can get rid of and not just things that like sit there and you keep filling.
Correct. I think this is an idea in omni focus, is like only put things on your to do list that are to do.
So like, what is it to do? It has to be a thing that can be done. Like be like achieve happiness.
And inner peace cannot really go on your to do list because it can't be done. It's like an ongoing life project.
I see.
I don't always do that. I have I have listen I have a project in my personal one that's like My house.
That's never done, right? It's just, I do need a place to put that stuff.
But it's like best practice is only put things on that can be done. Completed. I'm happy to make some more example projects and keep like going through this or and I should say one more thing is.
I'll show again, I'm gonna share these notes. But the setup that I'm showing you where I have that available perspective, that's like a custom perspective.
And the instructions for how to set that up are in this video I recommended, the Mac Sparky Omni Focus Guide.
So I'll link that out to everyone and he'll just show you like here's how you set that perspective up and so on and so forth.
I think we're past time, so I will stay, I, let me just double check.
Oh, we do. Okay, cool. So let's do questions. And then do I have anything?
We have 10 min left. So yeah.
No, I can hang out. I can hang out and talk if people want to as well. So.
Thanks, man. Nelson, go ahead.
Hey, Max. I, thanks for answering that delegate thing that is always a bugaboo and I love your approach there.
Awesome. I love that.
Yeah, the the main the key thought technology for delegate I've had very complicated Very, very, very sensitive and complicated delegations.
Yeah.
I've had to like delegate up to like important people and things like that. System situations in my life and Yeah, it's just like it's the way I think of it is I will only write something down that I can do.
I'm not gonna write something down that it's not my Like I can't write something down that's like someone else is going to do and sometimes all you can do is be like hear back from this person and so you just have to write down your back from this person because it's the only thing you can do.
So I have 2 questions for you. We talked about you just touched on evergreen projects and how the mentality is that you only want to have project you can actually complete, right?
But like. If there's something in your life it's like evergreen like I like like you said like working on the house Is that an appropriate use of the tag?
Like to just like tag something is like house so like when you're thinking about I mean, yeah.
Yeah. Listen, like, like when you say like appropriate use, like I just wanna be clear, like I'm not, I'm not selling anything and like I don't even barely have, I'm like hanging on by my fingernails myself so like don't just don't do it I'm just sharing I'm just saying I'm just trying to share like the best the least bad way
I've figured out to do it. I think probably the most popular use of tags is like exactly what you're talking about is like you want to see all the stuff for your house and there it is.
I can also tell you like the way in the book getting things done like they recommend doing it is that is to think of whatever tags or dependencies as like blockers, things that are outside of yourself, meaning like it has to be the night to do this.
I have to be in this space. Specific location. I have to be home to do this. Blockers.
I need to be on that call with this person. I need you write external dependencies that prevent you from doing the project right now.
Whatever it could be, what's an external dependency that prevents you from doing it right now?
That's a tag, right? Because you're like, what's blocking me? I even have a friend who has uses TED, this is an interesting one.
I have a friend, I do not do this, but I have a friend who uses tags. And they write high energy and low energy.
And so they have some types of tasks that can only be done when they're like, Wake up in the morning, have the cup of coffee, and you're like full of energy and you can like do it.
I don't know, like writing a sales email. You know, it's like you just have to be like ready to go.
And they have other things that's like low energy and that could be like data entry where it's like I'm only gonna do this if I'm sleepy or on an airplane or something like that.
So those are interesting ways to think of blockers too is like what's your own energy. To bring to it.
Awesome. i 1 other question. I'm sorry to pile them up, but Do you schedule time on your calendar to go through your little bits of paper and go through all your systems and Clan.
I do. Oh, I let me show. I forgot this key thing. So I'm me focus, so check this out.
So, only focus has this little thing called review. Everything is reviewed right now. But basically, how do I, let me see, can I make something, so I need to review it.
Let's just make this reviewed, like yesterday. No, hang on, that's May.
Let's just make it overdue. Okay, great. So look, so I'm, I mean, I'm on tech stars.
My, this is the project for like this talk, right? Like prepare this talk, right? And let's just say I want to How often do I want to review this talk?
Personal preference. How often do you want to be reminded of it for something that's like time sensitive?
Like I've got to get it done by this deadline. I might want to review it. Yeah, just every one week.
Okay, that's pretty aggressive for review, like reviewing it every week, but yeah. So now I have a little one under review and it's telling me I I need to review this project.
Meaning like what's it so that's like take a look think about it for a second like.
Is this everything I need to do? Are any of these things stale? Have I changed my mind?
So I can go through and be like, okay, you know what? I really don't need to deal with the Zoom link, I already have that. So I'm gonna just take that.
I'm not even gonna, I'm just gonna delete that. Then I'm done and I go mark reviewed.
And what's cool is now I can see the next review will be on May 3.rd So it pushes, so now in a week it's gonna remind me to review it.
So I don't schedule it in my calendar, but I do use the review tool and I'll need focus and I and in the morning I wake up and I omni-focus tells me what I need to review.
I have some projects I review every week, some I review every day, some I review every month. I have some my only review.
I have one project and omni focus called like.
I think it right now I'm calling it like idea like. Ideas for the future or something and it's like where I write down like crazy company ideas or something like that.
And that one I just review once a year. It's just like, is this something I wanna, you know, stuff I don't want to, Oh, I should talk, you know, whatever, like.
Buy this thing or start, you know, whatever crazy ideas for the future. In terms of Review.
So what does review mean? Like you're just looking at it?
Okay.
Yeah, it means like look at the like, so what what I do during a review is like I'm looking at the project and I'm trying to get the whole picture of it in my head.
I'm like, okay, so like it starts with is this project still important to my life? Do I even want this project?
In my life, right? So if I have a whole project for like, you know, whatever, like buying a bicycle and go to the store and research it and this and that.
And then I decide later, like, you know, I don't even really want to own a bicycle.
Great, that's the purpose of the review is to be like, I'm just dropping this project.
It's not, I've just changed my mind. So the 1st thing in the review is like, is this project support what you want to do in your life.
Then I'm looking at the individual tasks and I'm like, is it complete? Is everything I need?
Really does this reflect everything that needs to be done in the project? And then I'm going to go through the tasks and be like, are any of these like stale or wrong or do they need an update?
But the idea is like you never want to feel there's this like great freedom of like taking everything out of your brain and you have a little contract with yourself of like it's in on me it's in my to-do list I won't forget it it's written down But part of that is like to fulfill that contract for yourself, you can't forget it.
You have to remember, you have to look at it at some point. So the review is like. I promise I won't forget this.
It's not just going into a black hole and disappearing. I will review it. I will look at it.
That's cool.
So I would do a review. I try to do a review. I wake up in the morning. And I try to make it before I get into my email or anything else, I try to open up my to do list and I review my tasks.
I pick what I'm gonna do for the day and I try to make my own decision for myself of like, what's the story of the day?
Like, what am I trying to get done? What life am I gonna have today? Then I get into everything else.
And then, another question, sorry, this is a long answer. Another questions about calendar?
I also use a calendar and it's released serious for me if I put something on my calendar it's like.
There's no like, I don't put things on my calendar that are like, remember to take out the garbage.
Like the calendar is like. I have to have this thing happen at this time or it will like ruin my life.
Like it's like serious appointments, like real, real stuff. Like pick up my daughter. Whatever, like it has it's like real on my calendar otherwise it goes somewhere else Cause the worst is you open up your calendar and you have a bunch of like bullshit that you don't really need to do and you can't even tell where you're next appointment is like.
I don't like having like extra things in my that's like this is my personal taste but that's for me that's what works.
Good point. Doug, what do I
Oh yeah, I just wanted, that audio note to transcribed inbox to do item. Is that?
Yeah, I just made a shortcut. So basically it triggers a shortcut. So you can have this button right in the set system settings.
You can set this button to do all kinds of things and one of them is run shortcut.
So I made a shortcut for myself that opens up a text transcription and then when I'm done with the transcription.
It sends it to me focused and Omni Focus has really nice. What do they call it?
X-. Call backs. It has really good. URL schema support for shortcuts.
Oh, like, okay.
Yeah.
It's in the shortcut system so you can then take that transcribed text and follow a URL schema to just send it straight to Omi Focus.
Right in the omni-focus, there's no extra step.
Could you share that?
Yeah, I think those are shareable. That'd be awesome.
Yeah, I could share that. I'm happy too. Yeah, it is. Yeah, great idea.
That's cool.
Let me, okay, so now I have to put this in my real omni focus.
So. Remember to share my shortcut for iOS.
I'll send this recording to you, so you can see the chat, and you can go back and get everything you want.
Okay, I'm definitely not doing that so I'll have to make it work now.
But you've made it to do for you to look at the books.
Yeah, but I mean, I mean, I'm gonna write them down right now. I'm not rewatching this time.
Okay.
I'm not gonna listen to myself talk for an hour.
Okay, so we're at time, but Liam. Max said he has extra time.
So he can answer your question, but I just wanna.
Yeah, I'm happy to stay in chat and also if. I don't want to take anyone's time, but if there's any like parents who want to have a quick like parent chat, which is a sub problem I would love I would be very, so I would love to hear.
Any